# Shopyfize User Service

## Table of Contents
- [Overview](#overview)
- [Technologies Used](#technologies-used)
- [Features](#features)
- [Installation](#installation)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  - [Steps to Install](#steps-to-install)
- [Running the JAR File](#running-the-jar-file)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)


## Overview

The User Service is a core component of the Shopyfize application, responsible for user authentication and authorization. Built using Java and Spring Boot, this service utilizes modern technologies and practices to ensure a secure and efficient user experience.

## Technologies Used

- **Java**
- **Spring Boot**
- **Maven**
- **Postgres**
- **Docker**
- **JUnit**
- **Mockito**
- **Spring Security**
- **JWT (JSON Web Tokens)**
- **Spring Data JPA**
- **Hibernate**

## Features

- **User Login:** Users can log in to the application using their credentials.
- **Token-Based Authentication:** This service implements token-based authentication, ensuring secure user sessions.
- **Spring Authorization Server:** The service is configured to use Spring Authorization Server, enhancing the security and management of user permissions.

## Integration with ```product-service```

The ```user-service``` interacts with a separate ```product-service```, which serves as a repository for products. To access product data, users must be authenticated and authorized by the ```user-service```, ensuring that only valid users can retrieve information.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- Docker
- Maven
- Postgres

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone <repository-url>
   cd shopyfize-user-service
2. Set the environmental variable for **USER_SERVICE_SECRET:** This variable is used to sign the JWT tokens generated by the service. You can set this variable to any string value of your choice.
   In a Unix-based system, you can run:
   ```bash
   export USER_SERVICE_SECRET=your_secret_string
   ```
   In a Windows system, you can run:
   ```powershell
    [System.Environment]::SetEnvironmentVariable('USER_SERVICE_SECRET', 'your_secret_string', [System.EnvironmentVariableTarget]::User)
   ```
3. Build the application:
    ```bash
   mvn clean install
    ```
4. Running the application:
   * After building, the JAR file can be found in ```target/``` directory
   * You can run the jar with following command
    ```bash
   java -jar target/shopyfize-user-service-<version>.jar
   ```
5. Access the application at http://localhost:8080/auth/

### Contributing
Contributions are welcome! Please submit the pull request or open an issue to discuss changes

### License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for details.